Installation
============

Prerequisites
-------------

PyX needs Python 2.x and a TeX installation (including Type1 fonts). Try to
start 'python', 'tex' and 'kpsewhich cmr10.pfb' (the later should issue a full
path of the requested Type1 font).

Local usage without C extension modules
---------------------------------------

PyX can be run without any installation. Copy the file hello.py from the
examples directory to the main pyx directory and type 'python hello.py'. When
your TeX installation isn't configured to use Type1 fonts by default, you may
have to insert the line 'text.set(fontmaps="psfonts.cmz")' after the pyx import
statement and try again. See the FAQ for further details about TeX and font
configuration issues.

Installation procedure
----------------------

The installation of PyX is pretty straightforward if you have installed the
Python distutils package.

First, you have to decide which C extension modules you want to build. This can
be done by setting the respective flags in the setup.cfg config file. By default
no C extension modules are built and appropriate fallbacks will be used instead.

The build_t1strip option enables the t1strip extension module, which provides
partial font downloading (i.e. only the glyphs of a font that are used are
included in the eps file). The only requisites for building this module are the
Python header files and a C compiler. Note that the C compiler has to suit
the Python distribution you are using.

The second extension module pykpathsea provides Python binding for the kpathsea
library, which enables fast searching for files in the TeX/LaTeX directory
hierarchy. You will need the header files of this library, which are not
included in many standard TeX distributions. Besides that, the fallback, which
uses the kpsewhich program, works equally well, although it is not as efficient
as using the library directly. If you want to build the C extension module, you
may also have to specify the location of the kpathsea header files and of the
library itself in the setup.cfg file.

After you have adapted the setup.cfg file to your needs, you can either build
the extension modules locally by running

    python setup.py build_ext -i

or install PyX system wide by using

    python setup.py install

or an appropriate variant thereof.

Compiling the manual
--------------------

For the layout of the manual we have made use of the standard Python
documentation framework. For building the manual, you will need the script
"mkhowto" of your Python distribution. Please make a soft-link of this script
into the manual directory

    cd manual/
    ln -s </usr/lib/>python/Doc/tools/mkhowto mkhowto
    make

Note that this requires Python version 2.3. In former versions (2.2 and 2.1)
you will need to get the Python sources from www.python.org and try to find the
script there. For users of the older Python versions we have included a
ready-made pdf of the manual.

